Let's start with writing our own Helm charts first. Helm charts are incredibly versatile,
and they can automate almost any kind of Kubernetes package installation that we can
think of. In a way, they're similar to installation wizards on operating systems.
And installation wizard, besides extracting the application files and directories can also add
relevant shortcuts to the desktop configure the application to launch when the operating system
starts up, install additional libraries that are needed and so on. The same is true for Helm Charts.
Although charts are technically not programs, they can act like programs. Besides just installing
various Kubernetes objects to get our app up and running, they can do some extra stuff too.
For example, we can write the chart in such a way that whenever we do a Helm upgrade,
a database can be automatically backed up before that happens. So we have a way to restore
data from backup in case something goes wrong. And that's just one small example. We will look at
those kinds of complex setups with hooks and everything towards the end of this section.
It can be overwhelming to think about, like a lot of a million things a chart can do at this point.
So let's start with something simple and learn the important bits and pieces one by one. So let's
start by looking at how to create a Helm chart from scratch. Let's use the example of a simple
Hello World application. We have a deployment with the nginx image with two replicas. And we have a
service to expose this application. Super simple. Let's see how we can create a Helm chart from
this. Earlier, we learned that a Helm chart is a directory with a specific structure with the
templates directory and the other supporting files like the values.yaml, the Chart.yaml,
license, README, etc. So our goal is to create a directory structure first, something like this,
but you don't have to do that yourself manually. You could run the helm create command and specify
a chart name to create a chart structure. And this creates a skeleton structure of a Helm chart.
So now you just have to go in and modify these files, or add the relevant files to the templates
or charts directory. Now you'll see the chart.yaml file already has some sample data in it,
it has the name already set to nginx-chart, because that's what we gave in the command line,
and a sample description and some sample values for versions and app versions. Now let's assume
the following scenario, let's assume that we are building this for our company. And we want other
employees or other users, users that use it to have some basic information about the chart.
So we'll modify the description and add an email at the end under the maintenance section. So people
can contact us if they have any questions. And feel free to modify the other details and add
other properties to it, such as the home, the URL to the home directory, or a path to the icon,
etc., as required. Next is the templates directory; it already has some files that are samples.
And these are samples automatically created by Helm create command. For now, we will just get
rid of these and just work with the files that we already have for our application,
because our requirement is pretty simple and straightforward.
Okay, so we now have an empty templates directory. And our first goal is to move the files that we
already have for our application, the deployment file and the service YAML file into this directory.
And to be honest, this should be it. Once we place the relevant files in the templates directory,
our Helm chart technically should be ready to go. Our chart is now ready to be installed using
the Helm install command. However, note that these files in the templates folder have all static
values in it. For example, if you look at the name of the deployment, or the number of replicas or
the name of containers, they're all statically defined to Hello World, for example.
Now, what could be the problem with that? Imagine we install the Helm chart with this using the Helm
install command, we give the release a name, Hello World one, and point to the nginx chart directory
that we just created, it installs the chart and creates a deployment. The deployment is named
Hello World. This is because the template file has named Hello World defined in it. Now what happens
when you try to install another release of the same chart? It fails with the error message that
says a deployment with the name Hello World already exists. And of course, as you can see,
this is because the deployment name is static and is defined statically in the deployment.yaml file.
And every time that we are installing a new release using the helm install command, it's
simply trying to create the same deployment with the same name. So it must have different names
each time you install a helm chart. So how do we solve this? We templatize the name of the deployment,
we use helm's templating language to basically tell Helm that the name of this deployment
should be based on how the user chose to name his or her release. So release.name becomes
Hello, world dash one, and the name of the deployment becomes Hello, world one dash nginx.
So let's take a closer look at that template. Now we templatize something by adding something
between the two curly brackets. This is called the template directory. And it's not
something very specific to Helm. It is in fact the Go template language that Go programming languages,
template language within the curly brackets is where we specify the path to the objects that
we'd like to access. It starts with a dot, the dot refers to the root level or top-level scope.
We'll talk more about scopes in the upcoming lectures. The release name in this case is
the release name that we have specified in the helm install command. So when we run the helm
install command, the template directive is replaced by the release name to form hello-dash
world-dash-one-dash-nginx. So that's how templating works. Now similar to release name, there are
other objects as well such as release.name, release.namespace, release.isUpgrade,
revision, service, etc. Or you can refer to any values from the chart.yaml file that we
created, such as chart name itself, or the API version that we've defined in the chart.yaml
file, or the version or type keywords, home, etc. Or even details of the Kubernetes cluster itself
with the capabilities objects such as the kubeVersion, or the set of versions of resources
available on the cluster, or the helm version and such. And anything that starts with the values
is something that refers to the properties defined in the values.yaml file. And this
could be any number of values defined in the values.yaml file. And currently there are two.
Now one other thing to note here is the difference in case convention for the first three objects,
release, chart, and capabilities. The second part after the dot all starts with a capital letter,
such as name, namespace, upgrade, and others. However, if you look at values, you'll see this
starts with a small case. So why is that? These are case sensitive. So it is important to be careful
with the case you use. The first three are built-in objects. And as such, they must follow the
capital letter naming convention. Everything under values is user-defined. That is whatever
the user defines in the values.yaml file. So the users are free to follow whatever naming
convention that they'd like to follow in the values.yaml file. In this case, these values
follow a small case letter. And so you must use whatever it is that is defined in the values.yaml
file. Coming back to our example, if we create a release called Hello World 1 and another called
Hello World 2, the first one will name the deployment Hello World 1 nginx while the
second one will call it Hello World 2 nginx. And we now have guaranteed unique names. Now remember
to do the same for the services or any other objects that you create as part of your Helm
chart. We should follow similar techniques for all Kubernetes objects that must have unique values or
names. Helm does not allow us to install two releases with the same name. So by basing the
names of our Kubernetes objects on the release name, we can be sure that our charts can never
create two objects with the same name. Furthermore, when we later explore our objects, seeing something
called release 5-PVC or something will quickly help us identify to which release this
object belongs. So whatever value you think shouldn't be hard coded should be templatized.
In this case, the replicas and image names could be values that we need to allow the user using our
charts to customize. So we can templatize them by using the values.yaml replica count and values
.yaml image template directive like this. So anything defined as values should either be passed through
the values option, or the set option while installing Helm chart, or be defined in the
values.yaml file like this. So let's take a closer look at the value defined for image.
Since it's text, we could access it within the deployment.yaml file as values.image.
Now, image could have an image name and a version number, as well as other properties such as pull
policy, etc. So we can either write it as image_repository, image_pull_policy
or image_tag. But a better way and the right way to do it is to write it as a dictionary
like this. This way, we can refer to the image name as values.image.repository. So values
tells the values from the values.yaml file. The image is the image dictionary within the values
.yaml file. And repository is the name of the repository within the image dictionary. So that's
how the template directive is formed when we work with dictionaries. And if we want to add the tag
on then we add the tag using the same format values.image.tag like this. So the image
repository part becomes nginx. And the image tag part becomes 1.16.0. And together they form
the complete value with a colon in between. Well, that's how you define a dictionary in the values
file and use it in a template. So to summarize, when we install a Helm chart, Helm uses the files
in the templates directory, and then combines it with the information about the releases such as
the release name and any other information, the data stored in the values.yaml file,
and the chart details to form the final versions of manifest files, as seen here on the right to
deploy resources on Kubernetes. Now apart from these, it also refers to any other object that
are available, such as the Kubernetes cluster itself. So there may be some data that is pulled
from the Kubernetes cluster itself, and any other objects that are available to be used in a Helm
template. Well, that's all for this lecture, and I will see you in the next one.